**Q:** Why does the outbreak grow more slowly when I increase the infectious period?

**A:** _The number of secondary cases a particular case causes is specified by R0. If you increase the infectious
period, the same number of infections happen over a longer period. Hence the outbreak grows more slowly._

---

**Q:** Why is the number of severe cases lower than the number of critical cases?

**A:** _COVID-19 cases in critical condition need intensive care for a long time. Our model assumes that they spend on
average 14 days in the ICU. The severely ill (our proxy for those in need of a regular hospital bed) either deteriorate
fast or recover (default in our model is four days). Hence at any given point in time, the number of critically ill
people might exceed the number of severely ill._

---

**Q:** Is the model fit to observations?

**A:** _Yes, provided we have a good source of COVID-19 cases, we fit a few model parameters to observations.
Specifically, we estimate R0, the initial size and date of the epidemic, and the case underreporting fraction. For case
severity information, we utilize estimate from case outcome data from China._ Currently mitigation efforts, both the
timing and the efficacy are _not_ estimated from the data. We are actively looking for user-provided dates for
mitigation efforts for your regions of interest.

---

**Q:** My country/region/town is missing!

**A:** _If you have suggestions on additional regions that should be covered, head over to
https://github.com/neherlab/covid19_scenarios/tree/master/data and make a PR!_

---

**Q:** What is ICU overflow?

**A:** _In places that have seen severe COVID-19 outbreak, the capacity of intensive care facilities is quickly
exhausted. Patients that need ventilation but can't get ventilation due to shortage will die faster. "ICU overflow" is
our label for critically ill patients that should be ventilated but are not since no ventilators are available. These
patients will die faster. The degree to which they die faster is specified by the `Severity of ICU overflow` parameter._

---

**Q:** Wouldn't it be a good idea to model isolation of specific age-groups?

**A:** _Yes! This is indeed possible on covid-scenarios. Expand the card
`Severity assumptions and age-specific isolation`. The last column allows you to specify to what extent individual age
groups are isolated from the rest of the population._

---

**Q:** How does your model compare to the one by Imperial College London?

**A:** _You are probably referring to the
[March 16 report by Neil Ferguson et al](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/medicine/sph/ide/gida-fellowships/Imperial-College-COVID19-NPI-modelling-16-03-2020.pdf).
Like us, Ferguson et al model the effect of interventions on the spread of COVID-19 using a computational model. Their
model is individual based, meaning their program represents a large number of individuals among whom the virus is
spreading. Our model breaks the population into age-groups and different categories corresponding to susceptible,
infected, dead, recovered, etc. This allows for faster simulations, but loses some realism. The faster simulation allows
exploration of parameters._
